[material-ui] Add `mergeSlotProps` for extending components (#44809)
mui/material-ui: docs/data/material/guides/composition/composition.md

{{"demo": "Composition.js"}}

### Forwarding slot props

Use the `mergeSlotProps` utility function to merge custom props with the slot props.

> If the arguments are functions, they are resolved before merging. The result from the first argument will override the second.

Reviewer: This is a rare example where it's ok to use the future tense "will" because it's an "if... then" scenario. I would also connect these two sentences into one if I'm understanding it correctly.

```suggestion
If the arguments are functions then they'll be resolved before merging, and the result from the first argument will override the second.
```

```jsx
import Tooltip, { TooltipProps } from '@mui/material/Tooltip';
import { mergeSlotProps } from '@mui/material/utils';

export const CustomTooltip = (props: TooltipProps) => {
  const { children, title, sx: sxProps } = props;

  return (
    <Tooltip
      {...props}
      title={<Box sx={{ p: 4 }}>{title}</Box>}
      slotProps={{
        ...props.slotProps,
        popper: mergeSlotProps(props.slotProps?.popper, {
          className: 'custom-tooltip-popper',
          disablePortal: true,
          placement: 'top',
        }),
      }}
    >
      {children}
    </Tooltip>
  );
};
```

:::info

> `className` values are concatenated instead of overriding each other. For example, using the above snippet, the `className` of the popper slot passed to `CustomTooltip` is appended.

Reviewer: The grammar and the explanation are both tricky here—let me know if I understood the original text correctly.

```suggestion
`className` values are concatenated rather than overriding one another.
In the snippet above, the `custom-tooltip-popper` class is assigned to the Tooltip's `popper` slot.
If you added another `className` via the `slotProps` prop on the Custom Tooltip—as shown below—then both would be present on rendered popper slot:
```

```js
<CustomTooltip slotProps={{ popper: { className: 'foo' } }} />
```

> The popper slot will have the following className: `"… custom-tooltip-popper foo"`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The popper slot in the original example would now have both classes applied to it, in addition to any others that may be present: `"[…] custom-tooltip-popper foo"`.
```
